In a talk given to university students in Paris, Richard Stallman warns of the dangers of being a prisoner of the digital world. Because he is a computer scientist, it does not seem likely that Stallman would preach against a digital lifestyle. However, Stallman takes issue not with computers and software on their own, but rather takes issue with software and services that disrespect their users' freedom. He believes that proprietary software allows companies to insert malicious code that can spy on users. Companies that make software that collects information on users, he says, are not only denying users freedom of privacy, but are also establishing control over those users by keeping their source code secret . To combat this loss of control, Stallman argues that  “we have to extract people from digital society if it doesn't respect their freedom or we have to make it respect their freedom” (2011, para. 2).  

Early in the talk, Stallman  clarifies that when he speaks of free software, he speaks of software that respects users' freedom. Software that is non-free, he says, has the potential to control its users. As an example, he points to computers running Microsoft Windows. Those machines do not respect users' freedom, he says, because they track "data about the use of the computer" (2011, para. 4). Stallman adds that malicious software need not be on the users' hardware; an online service can also spy on its users and control the users' data . He points out a privacy double standard—companies do not protect users' privacy, but in the case of DRM, take great lengths to protect their own. 

Stallman's argument for “digital extraction” is chiefly supported by his analysis of what he believes to be the main threats to digital freedom: surveillance, censorship, restricted data formats, proprietary software, Internet services, and computer voting. While Stallman alludes to the more political topics of surveillance, censorship by governments, and computer voting, he devotes the bulk of his talk to the regulation and distribution of digital media and software.  Stallman envisions a world where content is distributed easily and freely; accordingly, he views any copy protection measures, such as the DMCA, as a form of censorship (2011, para. 96). Stallman encourages his audience to fight the “digital handcuffs” imposed by copy protection that would seek to control how they use digital content (2011, para. 98).  Stallman is similarity against proprietary software. Stallman supports his claim for the prohibition of proprietary software by citing the negative effects that its use has had on education. He further argues that society as a whole would benefit by severing its dependence on proprietary software (2011, para. 53). To realize his vision of a world with predominantly free software, Stallman launched he GNU Project and the Free Software movement.	

Stallman supports his arguments with examples that are carefully tailored to his audience. Because he delivered his talk at a French university, Stallman illustrates the threats to digital freedom using examples from France and greater Europe. For instance, he mentions the tracking of bicycles in Paris to demonstrate the threat posed by digital surveillance (2011, para. 8), and he mentions the secret file formats employed by Italian public television to demonstrate the threats posed by restricted data formats (2011, para. 30). Stallman also enhances his credibility through his use of French terms. Stallman's explanation on the meaning of “free”—or rather “libre”—software compliments the subtleties of the French language (2011, para. 34). Stallman's extensive explanation of free software also lays an important foundation for the rest of his talk that can be understood by different audiences. 	

It is important to note that Stallman presents his views in a purely ethical context. In fact, Stallman believes that one should only mention free software as “an ethical issue.” (2011, para. 63). Stallman additionally claims that the term “open source” was coined by those unwilling to discuss the ethics of free software (2011, para. 52). Stallman also refuses to entertain any argument on the economics of open source, going as far as to say that it isn't important (2011, para. 34). 

When talking about a digital society, Stallman draws his ethical truths about a digital society from a non-digital society. For example, in his section entitled “the war on sharing,” Stallman criticizes the Amazon kindle for its inability to lend books, asserting that the lending of books is an “important social act” (2011, para 98). Stallman maintains that the residents of a digital society must fight to maintain the basic freedoms and rights enjoyed by the non-digital society of the past.
